.\" Version: 0.170.0
.\"
.TH SAPHanaSR-showAttr 8 "18 Jun 2020" "" "SAPHanaSR-ScaleOut"
.\"
.SH NAME
SAPHanaSR-showAttr \- Shows Linux cluster attributes for SAP HANA system replication.
.\"
.SH SYNOPSYS
\fBSAPHanaSR-showAttr\fR [ --help | --version ]
.br
\fBSAPHanaSR-showAttr\fR [ --sid=SID[:INO] ] [ --sort=FIELD ] [ --format=FORMAT ] [ --cib=OFFLINE_CIB_FILE ]
.\" TODO \fBSAPHanaSR-showAttr\fR [ --sid=SID[:INO]] [ --sort=FIELD ] [ --format=FORMAT ] [ --cib=OFFLINE_CIB_FILE ]
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
SAPHanaSR-showAttr shows Linux cluster attributes for SAP HANA system replication automation.
The overall system replication (SR) state is shown as well as the HANA state on each node.
Because the HANA srHook method srConnectionChanged() is used, the respective information
shows up as well.
The information is fetched from the Linux cluster information base (CIB), not from HANA
directly.
.PP
The output shows three sections, containing all or some of the listed fields:
.\" TODO check with existing script.
.TP
Global section
.br
global (\fBGlobal\fP)
.br
date and time of record (\fBcib-time\fP)
.br
HANA primary replication site (\fBprim\fP)
.br
HANA secondary replication site (\fBsec\fP)
.br
HANA replication channel state indicated by srConnectionChanged (\fBsrHook\fP)
.br
HANA replication state of secondary site, indicated by systemReplicationStatus.py (\fBsync_state\fP)
.TP
Site section
HANA site name (\fBSit\fP)
.br
SAPHanaSR last primary timestamp (\fBlpt\fP)
.br
HANA landscape status (\fBlss\fP)
.br
HANA current master nameserver for that site (\fBmns\fP)
.br
HANA system replication role (\fBsrr\fP)
.TP
Hosts section
.br
Linux hostname (\fBHosts\fP)
.br
state of the Linux cluster resource (\fBclone_state\fP)
.br
maintenance state of Linux cluster node (\fBnode_state\fP)
.br
actual and configured roles for HANA on that node (\fBroles\fP)
.br
actual master score on that node (\fBscore\fP)
.br
HANA site where the host sits (\fBsite\fP)
.br
HANA SR mode (\fBsrmode\fP)
.br
maintenance state of Linux cluster node (\fBstandby\fP)
.br
HANA SR status (\fBsync_state\fP)
.br
HANA version (\fBversion\fP)
.br
HANA virtual host name (\fBvhost\fP)
.PP
Some fields are generated dynamically from the CIB. That fields might be missing,
if no corresponding attribute exists, e.g. the standby field.
An incomplete compilation on field details and purpose follows below.
.\" TODO formatting below. better no indents, but bold item header?
.\" TODO check details for Scale-Out
.PP
.B Hosts
- Linux hostname

Value: [ \fIHOSTNAME\fR ]
.\" TODO details. SAP allows up to 13 characters, SAP note. See also field vhost.
See also the  fields remoteHost and vhost.
.PP
.B clone_state
- state of the Linux cluster resource

Value: [ PROMOTED | DEMOTED | UNDEFINED | WAITING4PRIM | WAITING4NODES | WAITING4REG ]

.\" TODO: what kind of attribute?
This variable is set by the SAPHana resource agent.
.br
PROMOTED marks the master state of the instance, wich makes a HANA SR primary.
.br
DEMOTED makes a HANA SR secondary.
The DEMOTED state can be transient, on the way to promoting.
.br
WAITING4PRIM indicates potential risk of a dual primary situation. See section
DUPLICATE_PRIMARY_TIMEOUT of ocf_suse_SAPHana(7) and ocf_suse_SAPHanaController(7).
.PP
.B lpt
- last primary timestamp

Value: [ \fIUNIX_EPOCH\fR | 30 | 10 | 0 ]

The node attribute lpa_<sid>_lpt is set by the SAPHana resource agent.
When the RA detects a running HANA SR primary on the node, it records the Unix Epoch time.
See section DUPLICATE_PRIMARY_TIMEOUT of ocf_suse_SAPHana(7) and ocf_suse_SAPHanaController(7).
.br
Auxiliary values are set for an HANA SR secondary. 30 means the instance is
evictable for primary. 10 means: not yet ready.
.PP
.B node_state
- state of the Linux cluster node

Value: [ online | offline ]
.\" TODO UNCLEAN | pending ?
.PP
.B op_mode
- HANA SR operations mode

Value: [ logreplay | delta_datashipping | logreplay_readaccess ]

The node attribute hana_<sid>_op_mode is set by SAPHanaTopology, according to the running HANA. The attribute is used by the SAPHana resource agent for setting up system replication. delta_datashipping is not recommended in the context of Linux clusters.
.PP
.B remoteHost
- HANA SR remote host

Value: [ \fIHOSTNAME\fR ]
.\" TODO [ \fIHOSTNAME\fR | \fIHANA_VIRT_HOSTNAME\fR ] ?

The node attribute hana_<sid>_remoteHost is set by SAPHanaTopology, according to the running HANA.
The attribute is used by the SAPHana resource agent for setting up system replication.
See also the fields Hosts and vhost.
.PP
.B roles
- actual and configured roles for HANA on that node

The roles field in the Hosts section has up to six sub-fields.
.br

Field 1: return code
.br
Value: [ 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 | 0 ]
.br
.\"TODO This variable is determined by
This parameter does not tell you if the secondary system is ready for a takeover.
The meaning is different from common Linux return codes.
.br
4 = OK - Everything looks perfect on the HANA primary.
.br
3 = WARNING - A HANA Host Auto-Failover is taking place.
.br
2 = INFO - The landscape is completely functional, but the actual role of the host differs from the configured role.
.br
1 = DOWN - There are not enough active hosts.
.br
0 = FATAL - Internal script error, the state could not be determined.
.br
see landscapeHostConfiguration.py
.br

Field 2: HANA SR role
.br
Value: [ "P"rimary | "S"econdary ]
.br

Field 3: NameServer Config Role
.br
Value: [ master1 | master2 | master3 | worker | slave | standby | shtdown ]
.br

Field 4: NameServer Actual Role
.br
Value: [ master | slave | standby | shtdown ]
.br

Field 5: IndexServer Config Role
.br
Value: [ master1 | master2 | master3 | worker | slave | standby | shtdown ]
.br

Field 6: IndexServer Actual Role
.br
Value: [ master | worker | slave | standby | shtdown ]
.br

The sub-fields 3-6 are primarily useful for HANA scale-out.
.\" TODO details for scale-up
.\" scale-out: master1:master:worker:master | master1:slave:standby:standby | :shtdown:shtdown:shtdown | ... [ master1 | master2 | master3 | worker | slave | shtdown ]
For scale-up that four fields should be master1:master:worker:master.
.\" TODO or ":shtdown:shtdown:shtdown"
.PP
.B score
- actual master score on that node

.\"scale-up:
.\"Value: [ 150 | 140 | 100 | 90 | 80 | 60 | 0 | -1 | -INFINITY ]
Value: [ 150 | 145 | 140 | 115 | 110 | 100 | 80 | 70 | 60 | 5 | 0 | -1 | -9000 | -10000 | -12200 | -22100 | -22200 | -32300 | -33333 | -INFINITY ]

This is a variable of the SAPHana resource agent. It is calculated based on an internal
scoring table. A value of 150 should cause the Linux cluster promoting the local resource
instance to HANA SR primary master nameserver.
140 indicates a HANA primary master nameserver candidate. 
100 indicates the HANA secondary master nameserver. This field should not be empty.

Note: The effective resource scoring used by the Linux cluster differs from the above
values because the cluster engine takes into account other factors as well.  
.PP
.B site
- HANA site where the host sits

Value: [ \fIHANA_SITE\fR ]

The node attribute hana_<sid>_site is set by SAPHanaTopology, according to the running HANA.
The attribute is used by the SAPHana or SAPHanaController resource agent for setting up
system replication.
A dash (-) indicates the RA did not run or did not recognize the site.
.PP
.B srmode
- HANA SR mode

Value: [ sync | syncmem ]

The node attribute hana_<sid>_srmode is set by SAPHanaTopology, according to the running HANA.
The attribute is used by the SAPHana or SAPHanaController resource agent for setting up system
replication. SAP HANA knows also async and fullsync (see URLs below).
Those do not make sense for automating HANA system replication by an Linux cluster.
.PP
.B standby
- maintenance state of Linux cluster node

Value: [ on | off ]

This is a Linux Cluster node attribute. It is set by an admin.
The attribute is shown after it has been changed from the default.
The field might appear or disappear, depending on cluster maintenance tasks.
.PP
.B sync_st
and \fBsync_state\fR
- HANA SR status

Value: [ SOK | SFAIL | SWAIT | PRIM ]

.\"TODO cluster property sync_state ?
The cluster property sync_state is set by the SAPHana or SAPHanaController resource agent.
The first three values are representing an HANA system replication status,
recognized at latest RA run, see ocf_suse_SAPHana(7), ocf_suse_SAPHanaController(7) and
systemReplicationStatus.py .
.br
The 4th value (PRIM) just indicates an HANA SR primary.
.PP
.\" TODO check srHook
.B srHook

Value: [ SOK | SFAIL | SWAIT | PRIM ]

The cluster property hana_<sid>_site_srHook_<site> represents the HANA SR status from
HA/DR provider API.
.PP
.B version
- HANA version

Value: [ \fIHANA_VERSION\fR ]

.\"TODO set by ...
Version of the HANA instance on that node. Of course, should be supported for
the given Linux version.
Should be same on all nodes, except during specific HANA upgrade procedure.
.PP
.B vhost
- HANA virtual hostname

Value: [ \fIHANA_VIRT_HOSTNAME\fR ]

The virtual hostname is used by the HANA instance instead of Linux hostname.
The node attribute hana_<sid>_vhost is set by SAPHanaTopology, according to the running HANA.
The attribute is used by the SAPHana orSAPHanaController  resource agent for setting up system
 replication.
See also the  fields Hosts and remoteHost. SAPHanaToplogy needs the SAPHOSTAGENT to map from the local
hostname to the HANA virtual hostname.
.\" TODO details, see HANA global.ini
.\"
.SH OPTIONS
.HP
\fB --help\fR
        show help.
.HP
\fB --version\fR
        show version.
.HP
\fB --sid=\fISID\fR[:\fIINO\fR]
.br
	use SAP system ID \fISID\fR. Should be autodetected, if there is only one SAP HANA instance installed on the local cluster node. The SAP system ID is a 3 alphanum string with a valid SAP system name like SLE, HAE, FH1, C11, or P42.
Optional: Use SAP instance number \fIINO\fR. Should be autodetected, if there is only one SAP HANA instance installed on the local cluster node. The SAP instance number must be represented by a two digit numer like 00, 05 or 42. Some numbers ares not allowed, e.g. 98.
.HP
\fB --sort \fIFIELD\fR
.br
	sort Hosts section table by field. Allowed values: roles, site. The default sort is by hostnames.
.\" TODO --format
.\".HP
.\"\fB --format \fIFORMAT\fR
.\".br
.\"	output format. Allowed values: [ text | HTML ]. Default is text.
.HP
\fB --cib=\fIOFFLINE_CIB_FILE\fR
.br
	read data from given offline CIB file.
.\"
.SH RETURN CODES
.B 0
Successful program execution.
.br
.B >0
Usage, syntax or execution errors.
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
# SAPHanaSR-showAttr --sort roles
show all SAPHanaSR attributes in the cluster and sort host table output by roles.
.TP
# SAPHanaSR-showAttr --sid=HA1:10 --cib=./hb_report-17-07-2019/grauenstein01/cib.xml
show all SAPHanaSR attributes for SAP iystem ID HA1 and instance number 10 from given CIB file.
.\"
.SH FILES
.TP
/usr/bin/SAPHanaSR-showAttr
	the program itself.
.TP
/usr/lib/SAPHanaSR-ScaleOut/SAPHanaSRTools.pm
	needed functions.
.TP
/usr/sap/hostctrl/exe/saphostctrl
	the SAP host control command.
.\"
.SH BUGS
Formatting and content of this script's output will change, since this script
is under development. This script is not intended to be called from monitoring tools.
For monitoring please use SAPHanaSR-monitor instead.
Feedback is welcome, please mail to feedback@suse.com.
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBocf_suse_SAPHanaController\fP(7) , \fBocf_suse_SAPHanaTopology\fP(7) ,
\fBSAPHanaSR-ScaleOut\fP(7) , \fBSAPHanaSR-replay-archive\fP(8) , \fBSAPHanaSR-filter\fP(8) ,
\fBSAPHanaSR-monitor\fP(8) , \fBSAPHanaSR_maintenance_examples\fP(7) ,
\fBcrm_simulate\fP(8) , \fBcibadmin\fP(8) , \fBcrm_mon\fP(8) ,
\fBcs_clusterstate\fP(8) , \fBcs_show_hana_info\fP(8) , \fBcs_show_scores\fP(8) ,
.br
https://documentation.suse.com/sbp/all/?context=sles-sap ,
.br
https://documentation.suse.com/sles-sap/ ,
.br
https://www.susecon.com/doc/2015/sessions/TUT19921.pdf ,
.br
https://www.susecon.com/doc/2016/sessions/TUT90846.pdf
.\" TODO SUSECON 2020
.\"
.SH AUTHORS
F.Herschel, L.Pinne.
.\"
.SH COPYRIGHT
(c) 2014 SUSE Linux Products GmbH, Germany.
.br
(c) 2015-2017 SUSE Linux GmbH, Germany.
.br
(c) 2018-2020 SUSE LLC
.br
SAPHanaSR-showAttr comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY.
.br
For details see the GNU General Public License at
http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html
.\"
