.\" Version: 0.170.0
.\"
.TH SAPHanaSR_maintenance_examples 7 "20 Jun 2020" "" "SAPHanaSR"
.\"
.SH NAME
SAPHanaSR_maintenance_examples \- maintenance examples for SAPHana and SAPHanaController.
.PP
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Please see also the REQUIREMENTS section below.
.RE
.PP
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
\fB*\fR Initiate an administrative takeover of the HANA primary from one node to the other by
using the Linux cluster. 
.br
This procedure does not work for scale-out.
If the cluster should also register the former primary as secondary, AUTOMATED_REGISTER="true" is needed. Before the takeover will be initiated, the status of the Linux cluster and the HANA system replication has to be checked. The takeover should only be initiated as forced migration. After takeover of the primary has been finished, the migration rule has to be deleted. If AUTOMATED_REGISTER="true" is set, finally the former primary will be registered as secondary, once the migration rule has been deleted.
.PP
.RS 2
# crm_mon -1r
.br
# cs_clusterstate -i
.br
# SAPHanaSR-showAttr
.br
# crm configure show | grep cli-
.br
# crm resource move msl_SAPHana_SLE_HDB10 force
.br
# cs_clusterstate -i
.br
# SAPHanaSR-showAttr
.br
# crm resource clear msl_SAPHana_SLE_HDB10
.br
# SAPHanaSR-showAttr
.RE
.PP
Note: Former versions of the Linux cluster used "migrate" instead of "move" and "unmigrate" instead of "clear".
.PP
\fB*\fR Perform an SAP HANA takeover by using SAP tools. 
.br
The procedures is described here for scale-out. It works for scale-up as well. 
The status of HANA databases, system replication and Linux cluster has to be checked. The SAP
HANA resources are set into maintenance, an sr_takeover is performed, the old primary is
registered as new secondary and finally the SAP HANA resources are given back to the Linux
cluster.
.PP
1. On either node
.br
.RS 2
# crm_mon -1r
.br
# cs_clusterstate -i
.br
# SAPHanaSR-showAttr
.br
# crm configure show | grep cli-
.br
If everything looks fine, proceed.
.br
# crm resource maintenance msl_SAPHana_SLE_HDB10
.br
# crm_mon -1r
.RE
2. On the HANA primary master nameserver (e.g. node11)
.RS 2
.br
# su - sleadm
.br
~> sapcontrol ­nr 10 ­function StopSystem HDB
.\"~> HDB stop
.br
.\" TODO: check the below
~> sapcontrol ­nr 10 ­function GetSystemInstanceList
.PP
\fBOnly proceed after you made sure the HANA primary is down!\fR
.PP
.RE
3. On the HANA secondary master nameserver (e.g. node21)
.RS 2
.br
# su - sleadm
.br
~> hdbsnutil -sr_takeover
.br
~> HDBsettings.sh systemReplicationStatus.py; echo RC:$?
.br
~> HDBsettings.sh landscapeHostConfiguration.py; echo RC:$?
.br
If everything looks fine, proceed.
.RE
4. On the former HANA primary master nameserver, now future secondary master nameserver (e.g. node11)
.RS 2
.br
~> hdbsnutil -sr_register --remoteHost=node21 --remoteInstance=10 --replicationMode=sync
--name=site2 --operationMode=logreplay
.br
~> sapcontrol ­nr 10 ­function StartSystem HDB
.\"~> HDB start
.br
~> exit
.br
.RE
5. On the new HANA primary master nameserver (e.g. node21)
.RS 2
.br
~> HDBsettings.sh systemReplicationStatus.py; echo RC:$?
.br
~> HDBsettings.sh ./landscapeConfigurationStatus.py; echo RC:$?
.br
~> exit
.br
If everything looks fine, proceed.
.RE
6. On either node
.RS 2
.br
# cs_clusterstate -i
.br
# crm resource refresh msl_SAPHana_SLE_HDB10
.br
# crm resource maintenance msl_SAPHana_SLE_HDB10 off
.br
# SAPHanaSR-showAttr
.br
# crm_mon -1r
.RE
.PP
\fB*\fR Manually start the HANA primary if only one node is available. This might be necessary in case the cluster could not detect the status of both nodes.
.PP
.RS 2
1. Start the cluster on both nodes.
.br
2. Wait and check for cluster is running, and in status idle.
.br
3. Become sidadm, and start HANA manually.
.br
4. Wait and check for HANA is running.
.br
5. In case the cluster does not promote the HANA to primary, instruct the cluster to migrate the IP adress to that node.
.br
6. Wait and check for HANA has been promoted to primary by the cluster.
.br
7. Remove the migration rule from the IP adress.
.br
8. Check if cluster is in status idle.
.br
9. You are done, for now.
.br
10. Please bring back the other node and register that HANA as soon as possible. If the HANA primary stays alone for too long, the log area will fill up.
.RE
.PP
.\"
\fB*\fR Overview on maintenance procedure for HANA, the Linux cluster remains running, on pacemaker-1.0.
.PP
.RS 2
1. Set the Linux cluster into maintenance mode (crm configure property maintenance-mode=true).
.br
2. Perform the HANA maintenance, e.g. update to latest SPS.
.br
3. Set the SAPHanaController master/slave resource to unmanaged (crm resource unmanage <resource>).
.br
4. Set the Linux cluster back into ready mode (crm configure property maintenance-mode=false).
.br
5. Cleanup the SAPHanaController master/slave resource (crm resource cleanup <resource> node <node>).
.br
6. Set the SAPHanaController master/slave resource back to managed (crm resource manage <resource>).
.br
7. Check if everything looks fine (crm_mon -1r, cs_clusterstate -i,
 SAPHanaSR-showAttr).
.PP
.RE
Note: The YaST module hana_updater does something similar, combined with an
administrative takeover.
.PP
On pacemaker-2.0 respectively do the following. 
.PP
1. Set the SAPHanaController master/slave resource into maintenance mode.
.RS 2
# crm resource maintenance msl_SAPHanaCon_SLE_HDB10
.RE
2. Perform the HANA maintenance, e.g. update to latest SPS.
.br
3. Tell the cluster to forget about HANA states and to reprobe the resources.
.RS 2
# crm resource refresh msl_SAPHanaCon_SLE_HDB10
.RE
4. Set the SAPHanaController master/slave resource back to managed.
.RS 2
# crm resource maintenance msl_SAPHanaCon_SLE_HDB10 off
.RE
.PP
The two procedures must not be mixed. If the procedure for pacemaker-1.0 has been
used, left-over maintenance attribute have to be removed from the CIB before
proceeding with the new procedure for pacemaker-2.0.
.PP
.\"
.SH FILES
.br
.PP
.\"
.SH REQUIREMENTS
.br
\fB*\fR For the current version of the resource agents that come with the software packages
SAPHanaSR and SAPHanaSR-ScaleOut,
the support is limited to the scenarios and parameters described in the respective manual pages SAPHanaSR(7) and SAPHanaSR-ScaleOut(7).
.PP
\fB*\fR Be patient. For detecting the overall HANA status, the Linux cluster
needs a certain amount of time, depending on the HANA and the configured
intervalls and timeouts.
.PP
\fB*\fR Before doing anything, always check for the Linux cluster's idle status,
left-over migration constraints, and resource failures as well as the HANA
landscape status, and the HANA SR status.
.PP
\fB*\fR Maintenance attributes for cluster, nodes and resources must not be mixed.
.\"
.SH BUGS
.\" TODO
In case of any problem, please use your favourite SAP support process to open a request for the component BC-OP-LNX-SUSE. Please report any other feedback and suggestions to feedback@suse.com.
.PP
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.br
\fBocf_suse_SAPHanaTopology\fP(7) , \fBocf_suse_SAPHana\fP(7) , \fBocf_suse_SAPHanaController\fP(7) ,
\fBSAPHanaSR-monitor\fP(8) , \fBSAPHanaSR-showAttr\fP(8) , \fBSAPHanaSR\fP(7) , \fBSAPHanaSR-ScaleOut\fP(7) ,
\fBcs_clusterstate\fP(8) ,
\fBcrm\fP(8) , \fBcrm_simulate\fP(8) , \fBcrm_mon\fP(8) ,
.br
https://www.suse.com/products/sles-for-sap/resource-library/sap-best-practices.html ,
https://www.suse.com/media/presentation/TUT90846_towards_zero_downtime%20_how_to_maintain_sap_hana_system_replication_clusters.pdf ,
.br
https://help.sap.com/doc/eb75509ab0fd1014a2c6ba9b6d252832/1.0.12/en-US/SAP_HANA_Administration_Guide_en.pdf
.PP
.\"
.SH AUTHORS
.br
F.Herschel, L.Pinne.
.PP
.\"
.SH COPYRIGHT
(c) 2017-2018 SUSE Linux GmbH, Germany.
.br
(c) 2019-2020 SUSE LLC
.br
This maintenance examples are coming with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY.
.br
For details see the GNU General Public License at
http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html
.\"
