.\" Version: 0.180.0
.\"
.TH SAPHanaSR.py 7 "20 Sep 2021" "" "SAPHanaSR-ScaleOut"
.\"
.SH NAME
SAPHanaSR.py \- Provider for SAP HANA srHook method srConnectionChanged().
.PP
.\"
.\" .SH SYNOPSYS
.\" \fBSAPHanaSR.py\fP
.\" .PP
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
SAPHanaSR.py can be used to provide a script for the SAP HANA srHook method
srConnectionChanged().

The SAP HANA nameserver provides a Python-based API ("HA/DR providers"), which 
is called at important points of the host auto-failover and system replication 
takeover process. These so called hooks can be used for arbitrary operations
that need to be executed. The method srConnectionChanged() is called on the
master nameserver as soon as one of the replicating services loses or
establishes the system replication connection. This method is called only once.
.PP
.\"
.SH SUPPORTED PARAMETERS
\fB*\fR The "HA/DR providers" API accepts the following parameters for the 
ha_dr_provider_SAPHanaSR section:
.TP
\fB[ha_dr_provider_saphanasr]\fP
.TP
\fBprovider = SAPHanaSR\fP
.TP
\fBpath = /usr/share/SAPHanaSR-ScaleOut/\fP
.TP
\fBexecution_order = [ INTEGER ]\fP
.PP
\fB*\fR The "HA/DR providers" API accepts the following parameter for the trace section:
.TP
\fB[trace]\fP
.TP
\fBha_dr_saphanasr = [ info | debug ]\fP
.PP
\fB*\fR The SAPHanaController and SAPHana RA recognize the effecting system replication 
status via attributes in the CIB properties section. The SAP System Indentifier (sid) is given in lower case. See REQUIREMENTS section below for supported API
versions and scenarios. For old SAPHanaSR-ScaleOut the SAPHanaSR.py provides
one global attribute among the SAPHanaSR properties:
.TP
\fBhana_<sid>_glob_srHook = [ SOK | SFAIL | SWAIT ]\fP
.TP
Note: SAPHanaSR Scale-Up comes with a differnt SAPHanaSR.py that provides site-specific attributes. For SAPHanaSR-ScaleOut site-specific attributes see SAPHanaSrMultiTarget.py(7).
.PP
\fB*\fR The SAPHanaSR-manageAttr tool recognises scale-out multi-target capability via host attribute. The SAP System Indentifier (sid) is given in lower case. 
See REQUIREMENTS section below for supported API versions and scenarios.
For new SAPHanaSR-ScaleOut the SAPHanaSR.py reports its generation:
.TP
\fBhana_<sid>_gsh = [ \fIgeneration\fR \fB]\fP
.PP
.\"
.SH RETURN CODES
.B 0
Successful program execution.
.br
.B >0
Usage, syntax or execution errors.
.PP
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
* Example for specific permission in /etc/sudoers.d/SAPHanaSR .
.br
HANA 1.0 scale-out, SID is SLE. The attribute contains the lowercase-SID.
Access is allowed to the specified SID's srHook attribute only.
Access should be always limited to the specific SID.
This example is similar to those given in documentation for former versions of the scale-out srHook script. In-place upgrade of the package without adding multi-target support is possible, even if the existing sudo permission does not allow new auxiliary attributes.
.PP
.RS 2
# Comments need a blank after the hash.
.br
# SAPHanaSR-ScaleOut old-style needs for the srHook script:
.br
sleadm ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD: /usr/sbin/crm_attribute -n hana_sle_glob_srHook -v * -t crm_config -s SAPHanaSR 
.RE
.PP
Note: In former documentation the central /etc/sudoers has been used instead of /etc/sudoers.d/SAPHanaSR. See sudoers(5) for including files and other details. 
.PP
* Example for generic permission in /etc/sudoers.d/SAPHanaSR .
.br
HANA 1.0 and HANA 2.0 scale-out, SID is SLE. The attribute contains the lowercase-SID. 
Access is allowed to all attributes of the specified SID.
Access should be always limited to the specific SID. 
This pattern works for both, old-style and multi-target.
It might be used for any new installation.
For more examples see SAPHanaSrMultiTarget.py(7) and SAPHanaSR-manageAttr(8).
.PP
.RS 2
# SAPHanaSR-ScaleOut needs for the srHook script:
.br
sleadm ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD: /usr/sbin/crm_attribute -n hana_sle_*
.RE
.PP
* Advanced example for very restricted permission in /etc/sudoers.d/SAPHanaSR .
.br
HANA 1.0 and HANA 2.0 scale-out, SID is NSA. The attribute contains the lowercase-SID.
Access is closely restricted to needed attributes and values.
Restricted patterns should be used with caution. They may interfere with new functionality in the future. Please double check before applying in production. 
.PP
.RS 2
# SAPHanaSR-ScaleOut needs at least for the srHook script:
.br
nsaadm ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD: /usr/sbin/crm_attribute -n hana_nsa_glob_srHook -s SOK -t crm_config -s SAPHanaSR
.br
nsaadm ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD: /usr/sbin/crm_attribute -n hana_nsa_glob_srHook -s SFAIL -t crm_config -s SAPHanaSR
.\" TODO empty string needed?
.\" .br
.\" nsaadm ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD: /usr/sbin/crm_attribute -n hana_nsa_glob_srHook -s " " -t crm_config -s SAPHanaSR
.br
nsaadm ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD: /usr/sbin/crm_attribute -n hana_nsa_gsh -v 1.0 -l reboot
.RE
.PP
* Example for looking up the sudo permission for the srHook script.
.br
All related files (/etc/sudoers and /etc/sudoers.d/*) are scanned.
Example SID is HA1.
.PP
.RS 2
# sudo -U ha1adm -l | grep "NOPASSWD.*crm_attribute.*hana_ha1"
.RE
.PP
* Example for entry in SAP HANA global configuration
/hana/shared/$SID/global/hdb/custom/config/global.ini
.br
This file is needed at both sites. The HANA has to be stopped before the files
can be edited. Do not copy the file between sites. Please check SAP HANA documentation for details. Do not forget to adapt the sudo permission, see examples above.
.PP
.RS 2
[ha_dr_provider_SAPHanaSR]
.br
provider = SAPHanaSR
.br
path = /usr/share/SAPHanaSR-ScaleOut/
.br
execution_order = 1
.br
[trace]
.br
ha_dr_saphanasr = info
.RE
.PP
* Example for creating the optional SAPHanaSR python object file manually. SID is SLE.
.PP
.RS 2
# mkdir -p /hana/shared/srhook
.br
# chown sleadm.sapsys /hana/shared/srhook
.br
# su - sleadm
.br
# cd /hana/shared/srhook
.br
# python -m py_compile /usr/share/SAPHanaSR-ScaleOut/SAPHanaSR.py
.br
# ls -l SAPHanaSR.pyc
.\" TODO chmod 755?
.RE
.PP
* Example for checking the system log for srHook setting its version in the CIB nodes section.
.br
When being loaded on the HANA master name server, the srHook writes its version as node attribute into the CIB. This action is logged in the system log.
If no log entry exists, either the srHook has not being loaded, or it did not have sufficient sudo permission. See HANA tracefile example below and sudo permission example above.
.PP
.RS 2
# grep "sudo.*crm_attribute.*hana.*gsh" /var/log/messages
.RE
.PP
* Example for checking the HANA tracefiles for srHook writing its version into CIB. 
.PP
.RS 2
# su - sleadm
.br
~> cdtrace
.br
~> grep crm_attribute.*hana.*gsh nameserver_*.trc | grep rc=0
.br
~> grep crm_attribute.*hana.*gsh nameserver_*.trc | grep -v rc=0
.br
~> exit
.RE
.PP
* Example for checking the system log for srHook setting HANA system replication status in the CIB properties section. 
.PP
.RS 2
# grep "sudo.*crm_attribute.*srHook" /var/log/messages
.RE
.PP
* Example for checking the HANA tracefiles for srConnectionChanged() events.
.PP
.RS 2
# su - sleadm
.br
~> cdtrace
.br
~> grep SAPHanaSR.srConnectionChanged.*called nameserver_*.trc
.br
~> grep crm_attribute.*SAPHanaSR nameserver_*.trc
.br
~> exit
.RE
.PP
.\"
.SH FILES
.TP
/usr/share/SAPHanaSR-ScaleOut/SAPHanaSR.py
 the hook provider, delivered with the RPM
.TP
/hana/shared/srhook/SAPHanaSR.pyc
 the hook provider, if pre-compiled for the particular HANA (optional)
.TP
/hana/shared/$SID/global/hdb/custom/config/global.ini
 the on-disk representation of HANA global system configuration
.TP
/etc/sudoers , /etc/sudoers.d/
 the sudo permissions configuration
.TP
/usr/sap/$SID/HDB$nr/$host/trace/
 the directory with HANA trace files
.PP
.\"
.SH REQUIREMENTS 
1. SAP HANA starting with version 1.0 SPS11 patch level 112.02.
Older versions do not provide the srHook method srConnectionChanged().
With the mentioned HANA versions uni-directional chained system replication
is possible. See SAPHanaSR-ScaleOut(7) for supported API versions and scenarios.
.PP
2. No other HADR provider hook script should be configured for the
srConnectionChanged() method. Hook scripts for other methods, provided in
SAPHanaSR and SAPHanaSR-ScaleOut, can be used in parallel to SAPHanaSR.py, if
not documented contradictingly.
.PP
3. The user <sid>adm needs execution permission as user root for the command crm_attribute.
.PP
4. The hook provider needs to be added to the HANA global configuration,
in memory and on disk (in persistence).
.PP
5. If the hook provider should be pre-compiled, the particular Python version that comes with SAP HANA has to be used.
.PP
6. The Linux cluster needs to be up and running to allow HA/DR provider events
being written into CIB attributes. The current HANA SR status might differ from 
CIB srHook attribute after cluster maintenance.
.PP
7. The srHook script runtime almost completely depends on call-outs to OS and
Linux cluster.
.PP
.\"
.SH BUGS
Global and site-specific properties for HANA SR status can not be used at same
time.
.br
In case of any problem, please use your favourite SAP support process to open
a request for the component BC-OP-LNX-SUSE.
Please report any other feedback and suggestions to feedback@suse.com.
.PP
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBSAPHanaSR-ScaleOut\fP(7) , \fBSAPHanaSrMultiTarget.py\fP(7) ,
\fBocf_suse_SAPHanaTopology\fP(7) , \fBocf_suse_SAPHanaController\fP(7) ,
\fBSAPHanaSR-monitor\fP(8) , \fBSAPHanaSR-manageAttr\fP(8) ,
\fBSAPHanaSR-showAttr\fP(8) ,
\fBcrm_attribute\fP(8) , \fBsudo\fP(8) , \fBsudoers\fP(5) , \fBpython\fP(8) ,
.br
https://documentation.suse.com/sbp/all/?context=sles-sap ,
.br
https://documentation.suse.com/sles-sap/ ,
.br
https://www.susecon.com/doc/2015/sessions/TUT19921.pdf ,
.\".br
.\"https://www.susecon.com/doc/2016/sessions/TUT90846.pdf ,
.br
https://www.susecon.com/archive-2019.html ,
.br
https://www.susecon.com/archive-2020.html ,
.br
http://help.sap.com/saphelp_hanaplatform/helpdata/en/13/67c8fdefaa4808a7485b09815ae0f3/content.htm ,
.br
http://help.sap.com/saphelp_hanaplatform/helpdata/en/5d/f2e766549a405e95de4c5d7f2efc2d/content.htm ,
.br
http://help.sap.com/saphelp_hanaplatform/helpdata/en/12/00ab8ef0c54c54be2d0e7f5327f7ed/content.htm?frameset=/en/13/67c8fdefaa4808a7485b09815ae0f3/frameset.htm&current_toc=/en/00/0ca1e3486640ef8b884cdf1a050fbb/plain.htm&node_id=413 ,
.br
https://help.sap.com/saphelp_hanaplatform/helpdata/en/3f/1a6a7dc31049409e1a9f9108d73d51/content.htm
.PP
.\"
.SH AUTHORS
A.Briel, F.Herschel, L.Pinne.
.PP
.\"
.SH COPYRIGHT
(c) 2015-2016 SUSE Linux GmbH, Germany.
.br
(c) 2017-2021 SUSE LLC
.br
SAPHanaSR.py comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY.
.br
For details see the GNU General Public License at
http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html
.\" 
