.\" Version: 0.180
.\"
.TH SAPHanaSR-ScaleOut-scenarios 7 "27 Jan 2025" "" "SAPHanaSR-ScaleOut"
.\"
.SH NAME
SAPHanaSR-ScaleOut-scenarios \- SAP HANA scale-out system replication scenarios.
.PP
.\"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
SAPHanaSR-ScaleOut covers the topology scale-out. On this topology,
several scenarios are supported.
.PP
\fB* Scenarios overview\fB
.PP
The table shows the known SAPHanaSR-ScaleOut HA scenarios for HANA system replication
for the scale-out topology. The current support status is also shown.
.PP
.\" see man tbl and https://technicallywewrite.com/2023/09/23/tblexample
.TS
tab(@) allbox center;
cb cb cb
c c c
^ c ^
^ c ^
^ c c
^ c ^
^ c ^
^ c ^
^ c c
^ c ^
c c c
^ c ^
^ c ^
^ c c
^ c c
^ c ^
^ c ^
^ c ^.
Topology@Scenario@Status
Scale-Out@perf-opt, up to 12 nodes, no standby (BW)@Supported
@perf-opt, 4 nodes, 2nd site read-enabled (ERP)@Supported
@perf-opt, multi-target, 3rd site outside cluster@Supported
@perf-opt, up to 30 nodes w. standby (BW)@Undocumented
@perf-opt, multi-target, 3rd site inside cluster@Non-supported
@perf-opt, multi-SID@Non-supported
@cost-opt@Non-supported
@two perf-opt clusters connected@Non-supported
.TE
.PP
.RS 4
Note: One additional Linux cluster node at 3rd site is needed for all scale-out scenarios.
.RE
.\" TODO align wording with "Supported HA Solutions"
.PP
\fBSupported\fP - the scenario is known to work for the given topology. The
setup has been tested and is documented in a setup guide. It is supported by
SUSE.
.PP
\fBUndocumented\fP - the scenario is expected to work for the given topology.
The setup is currently not documented in a setup guide. SUSE services are
prepared to help with implementation. Once the setutp is working, it could be
supported by SUSE.
.PP
\fBNon-supported\fP - the scenario is expected not to work. It is not supported
by SUSE.
.PP
For details on requirements and configuration of the scenarios, please refer to manual page SAPHanaSR-ScaleOut(7), as well as the respective setup guides.
.PP
\fB* Scenario notation\fB
.PP
It might help to describe scenarios in a pseudo-visualising notation.
.PP
.TS
tab(@) allbox center;
cb cb
c c
c c
c c
c c
c c
c c
c c
c c.
Symbol@Meaning
[ ]@Linux cluster
 A B C@master nameserver node
 a b c@worker node
 _ @ standby node
=>@syncronous replication
->@asyncronous replication
'@primary IP address
"@secondary (read-enabled) IP address
.TE
.PP
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
\fB* Examples for supported scenarios\fR
.TP
Scale-out performance-optimised multi-target read-enabled (ERP)
[ 'Aa => "Bb ] -> Cc -> Dd
.TP
Scale-out performance-optimised 8-node w. standby (BW)
[ 'Aaaaaaa_ => Bbbbbbb_ ]
.PP
\fB* Examples for non-supported scenarios\fR
.TP
Scale-out performance-optimised two clusters connected
[ 'Aa => Bb ] -> [ 'Cc => Dd ]
.PP
.\"
.SH BUGS
.PP
In case of any problem, please use your favourite SAP support process to open
a request for the component BC-OP-LNX-SUSE.
Please report any other feedback and suggestions to feedback@suse.com.
.PP
.\"
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBSAPHanaSR-ScaleOut\fP(7) , \fBocf_suse_SAPHanaController\fP(7) ,
\fBsusChkSrv.py\fP(7) , \fBSAPHanaSR-ScaleOut_basic_cluster\fP(7) ,
.br
https://documentation.suse.com/sles-sap/sap-ha-support/html/sap-ha-support/article-sap-ha-support.html ,
.br
https://documentation.suse.com/sbp/sap-15/
.PP
.\"
.SH AUTHORS
.PP
A.Briel, F.Herschel, L.Pinne.
.PP
.\"
.SH COPYRIGHT
.PP
(c) 2025 SUSE LLC
.br
The package SAPHanaSR-ScaleOut comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY.
.br
For details see the GNU General Public License at
http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html
.\"
